# SNHU-465
Architecture: The front-end-side application of the project was developed using Express, a node.js framework. handlebars were used to create templates and render the HTML pages. JavaScript was used for the API server controllers which handle the incoming HTTP requests and send responses back to the caller. Next, I used Angular to develop a single-page application, on this page, I developed the CRUD functions so that the admins can add, edit, and delete trips from the trip database on top of that I implemented authentication by adding a login feature.

NoSQL MongoDB was used as the database to store all the trip information and the registered users. On top of that, NoSQL MongoDB provides faster speed in requesting data and more functionality like CRUD

Functionality: JSON is a data transmission format, JSON helps in organizing the data for the application. JSON cannot contain functions when JavaScript objects can contain functions. JSON can be created and used by other programming languages, unlike JavaScript objects that can only be used in JavaScript. This ties frontend and backend development together by creating a way for data and Javascript objects to be stored on the backend and used in different situations based on what the frontend is requesting the data for. This also means that the data just has to be stored once but can be pulled and used in a variety of ways.

In one instance from my full stack process, when each trip is rendered separately, having reusable core components is key to Speed as the development will take less time as the components are already built and tested. This also reduces the efforts in developing a new application as the basic components are already built and tested this will help to develop the new application faster and have the same consistent look and feel.

Testing: One way of testing endpoints prior to adding security is by just going to the localhost web address for the API endpoint to see if the page successfully loads the data or what type of error it throws if an error in the console. In a full-stack application, Methods like Create, read, update, and delete are functions that can be used to retrieve, modify, and even deleted data from the database so that the functionality can be implemented. These are driven on the backend by using the functions of the database in this case MongoDB (show dbs, findOne, and much more) to modify the database depending on the client's needs. The Endpoints are the results of the methods as seen by the admin or the client side of the application. Endpoints need to be tested so that they function how they should and display data properly or throw errors if an actual error occurs. Security is another layer of code that is added to prevent unauthorized or unauthenticated users from accessing or modifying the database. An example of this would be to add or edit a trip in the database. These API endpoints need to be protected so that unauthorized users can't tamper with the database.

Reflection: I have learned a lot in this course, in just 8 weeks I was able to create a web application. Web applications are one of the most common application types out there this allows access from any platform that has an internet connection. I feel like I still have a lot to learn when it comes to full-stack development. This class introduced me to many applications like Express HTML, Angular, and Node.js which I never used before. This course has helped me narrow down the direction I want to go career-wise. I think that the biggest skill that I have developed in this process is that I have gained a better understanding of how different modules or components of code link together and how they can be used to build a finished product.
